Publish tech advisory for Feb 11th 2026 (#22482)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/advisories/a161317.md

---
title: Technical Advisory 161317
advisory: A-161317
summary: A bug in CockroachDB's AVRO data import functionality can result in silent data loss when importing AVRO data using Object Container File (OCF) format. Storage backend errors (such as S3 read failures) might be silently ignored during these IMPORT operations, resulting in incomplete data imports without any error being reported to the user.
toc: true
affected_versions: v20.1 to v24.2, v24.3.0 to v24.3.25, All versions of v25.1, v25.2.0 to v25.2.11, v25.3.0 to v25.3.7, v25.4.0 to v25.4.3, All testing versions of v26.1 through v26.0-beta.3
advisory_date: 2026-02-11
docs_area: releases
---

Publication date: {{ page.advisory_date | date: "%B %e, %Y" }}

> ## Impact

Reviewer: For consistency with past TA's

```suggestion
## Description
```

Author: Had a discussion about this with the TA folks, we agreed in this instance that having separate "Description" and "Impact" sections on this TA would be duplicative and make no sense. Our conclusion was to have a single Impact section for this one.

A bug in CockroachDB's AVRO data import functionality can result in silent data loss when importing AVRO data using Object Container File (OCF) format. Storage backend errors (such as S3 read failures) might be silently ignored during these IMPORT operations, resulting in incomplete data imports without any error being reported to the user.

> This advisory applies to the following versions of CockroachDB:

Author: Same comment as above.

- v20.1 through v24.2
- v24.3.0 through v24.3.25
- All versions of v25.1
- v25.2.0 to v25.2.11
- v25.3.0 to v.25.3.7
- v25.4.0 to v.25.4.3
- All testing versions of v26.1 through v26.1.0-beta.3 

## Statement

This is resolved in CockroachDB by PR [#161318](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/161318) which fixes the improper error handling in the AVRO OCF reader implementation.

This fix has been applied to the following maintenance releases of CockroachDB:

- v24.3.26
- v25.2.12
- v25.4.4
- Testing release v26.1.0-rc.1

> This public issue is tracked in [161317](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/161317).

Reviewer: nit

```suggestion
This public issue is tracked in [#161317](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/issues/161317).
```

## Mitigation

Users of affected CockroachDB versions are encouraged to upgrade to v24.3.26, v25.2.12, v25.4.4, v26.1.0-rc.1, or a later version.
Users on affected versions can determine whether they may have encountered the problem by searching their logs to detect any errors during IMPORT jobs that improperly succeeded. If the logs indicate a potential issue, users should contact support and work through the appropriate manual validation steps.

For details, refer to [Detection via logs](#detection-via-logs) and [Manual validation](#manual-validation). Reach out to our [support team](https://support.cockroachlabs.com/) if more information or assistance is needed.

### Detection via logs

> If an IMPORT of an AVRO data file using OCF format succeeded, the logs may indicate that an error caused some data to be missed. Note that some errors are retried automatically and transparently, so although an error might have occurred, a successful retry would prevent any data loss. If there was no retry or if the retry was unsuccessful, an error message would be logged indicating possible data loss. The exact error message varies depending on the CockroachDB version and the cloud storage service used, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `IMPORT` of an Avro data file using OCF format succeeded, the logs may indicate that an error caused some data to be missed. Note that some errors are retried automatically and transparently, so although an error might have occurred, a successful retry would prevent any data loss. If there was no retry or if the retry was unsuccessful, an error message would be logged indicating possible data loss. The exact error message varies depending on the CockroachDB version and the cloud storage service used, for example:
```

1. If the output of the IMPORT statement showed the expected number of rows, then the import was unaffected.
1. After a successful IMPORT job, there should be a `RecoveryEvent` logged to the TELEMETRY logging channel with `"RecoveryType": "import_job"`. If `NumRows` from this event shows the expected number of rows, then the import was unaffected.
1. If the logged row count indicates missing rows, or you otherwise suspect that the IMPORT may have been incomplete, the recommended approach is to re-run the IMPORT using a fixed version of CockroachDB, loading the data into a second table. You can then compare the two datasets using a JOIN to identify rows that may be missing from the original import, and manually reconcile any discrepancies.
  - In many cases, this comparison can be done directly against the existing table. Rows may appear as “missing” if they failed to import originally, or if they were subsequently updated or deleted. Depending on the workload, these cases may be distinguishable through application logic or other logs.

>   - If you choose to use retained backups that cover the relevant time window, an alternative is to restore a copy of the table as it existed shortly after the original IMPORT completed (using RESTORE … AS OF SYSTEM TIME) and compare row counts or join against that restored table. This can help isolate rows that failed to import specifically. However, this approach depends on backup availability and retention, and may be more time-consuming than comparing against the existing table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - If you choose to use retained backups that cover the relevant time window, you can restore a copy of the table as it existed shortly after the original `IMPORT` completed (using `RESTORE … AS OF SYSTEM TIME`) and compare row counts or join against that restored table. This approach can help isolate rows that failed to import. However, this approach depends on backup availability and retention and may take more time than comparing against the existing table.
```
